.. _isochronesload:

Loading the isochrones
######################


**ASteCA** requires a set of theoretical isochrones to estimate the fundamental
parameters for the clusters. The supported services are:
`PARSEC <http://stev.oapd.inaf.it/cgi-bin/cmd_3.7>`_,
`MIST <https://waps.cfa.harvard.edu/MIST/>`_, and
`BASTI <http://basti-iac.oa-abruzzo.inaf.it/isocs.html>`_.


Each service produces the isochrone files in a different way. A single file
produced with these services will contain:

* PARSEC : multiple metallicities and multiple ages
* MIST   : single metallicity and multiple ages
* BASTI  : single metallicity and single age


.. _isoch_loading:

Loading the files
*****************

All isochrones files should be stored in a single folder. **ASteCA** assumes that
all files within that folder are isochrone files that should be loaded. The user can
combine files for different photometric systems as long as they belong to the same
service, i.e. PARSEC, MIST, or BASTI. The only restriction is that the files must have
the same shape, this is: the same number of metallicities, ages, and initial masses.


To load the isochrones and generate an ``isochrones`` object, we proceed as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import asteca

    # Load PARSEC isochrones
    isochs = asteca.isochrones(
        model="PARSEC",
        isochs_path="isochrones/",
        magnitude="Gmag",
        color=("G_BPmag", "G_RPmag"),
        magnitude_effl=6390.7,
        color_effl=(5182.58, 7825.08),
    )

Where:

- ``model`` : Model used to generate the isochrones. Must be one of the three
  allowed models
- ``isochs_path`` : Path to the folder where the isochrone file(s) is(are) stored
- ``magnitude`` : Name of the magnitude column in the isochrone file(s)
- ``color`` : Name of the two filters that make up the color. Names must be
  **in the proper order**, i.e. such that the color name is generated by subtracting
  the first filter from the second one.
- ``magnitude_effl`` : Effective lambda (in Angstrom) for the magnitude filter.
- ``color_effl`` : Effective lambdas for the filters that make up the ``color``.

The effective lambda values represent the effective central/midpoint wavelength of a
filter. These values are returned by the
`CMD service <http://stev.oapd.inaf.it/cgi-bin/cmd>`_, and are also available in
the documentation for the
`pyphot <https://mfouesneau.github.io/pyphot/libcontent.html>`_ package and the
`Filter Profile Service <http://svo2.cab.inta-csic.es/theory/fps/>`_
of the Spanish Virtual Observatory.

There are a few more optional arguments that can be used when loading the isochrones.
The user can refer to :py:mod:`asteca.isochrones` for more information on the arguments
of the :class:`isochrones` class.

One of those extra arguments is ``z_to_FeH``, used to transform metallicity values from
he default ``z`` to the logarithmic version ``FeH`` (set to ``None`` by default).
If you want to generate your synthetic cluster models using
``FeH`` instead of ``z``, then this argument must be changed to the solar ``z``
metallicity value for the isochrones.
For example, if you are using PARSEC isochrones a solar metallicity of
``z=0.0152`` is recommended (see
`CMD input form <http://stev.oapd.inaf.it/cgi-bin/cmd_3.7>`_), which means that
you would load your isochrones as:

.. code-block:: python

    isochs = asteca.isochrones(
        model="PARSEC",
        isochs_path="isochrones/",
        magnitude="Gmag",
        color=("G_BPmag", "G_RPmag"),
        magnitude_effl=6390.7,
        color_effl=(5182.58, 7825.08),
        z_to_FeH=0.0152
    )

If this argument is not changed from its default then the ``z`` parameter will be used
to generate synthetic clusters, as shown in the section :ref:`ref_generating`.

Another extra argument is ``N_interp``, which controls the isochrones interpolation 
(set to ``2500`` by default). A smaller value con be used to lower the amount of memory
used by this class, but it comes at the expense of more coarse synthetic clusters being
generated later on (since the isochrones will be interpolated with fewer points and will
thus contain less resolution).


Please `contact me <gabrielperren@gmail.com>`_ if you have any issues with the loading
process of the theoretical isochrones.
